---
title: "MIN2Net: End-to-End Multi-Task Learning for Subject-Independent Motor Imagery EEG Classification"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-12-21-MIN2Net
excerpt: '.....'
date: 2021-12-21
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering'
# slidesurl: 'https://...'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9658165'
codesurl: 'https://github.com/IoBT-VISTEC/MIN2Net'
citation: 'P. Autthasan, <b>R. Chaisaen<sup>\*</sup>,</b> T. Sudhawiyangkul, P. Rangpong, S. Kiatthaveephong, N. Dilokthanakul, G. Bhakdisongkhram, H. Phan, C. Guan, and T. Wilaiprasitporn, &quot;<b>MIN2Net: End-to-End Multi-Task Learning for Subject-Independent Motor Imagery EEG Classification,</b>&quot; in <i>IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering,</i> vol. 69, no. 6, pp. 2105-2118, June 2022.'
---
**Objective:** Advances in the motor imagery (MI)-based brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) allow control of several applications by decoding neurophysiological phenomena, which are usually recorded by electroencephalography (EEG) using a non-invasive technique. Despite significant advances in MI-based BCI, EEG rhythms are specific to a subject and various changes over time. These issues point to significant challenges to enhance the classification performance, especially in a subject-independent manner. **Methods:** To overcome these challenges, we propose MIN2Net, a novel end-to-end multi-task learning to tackle this task. We integrate deep metric learning into a multi-task autoencoder to learn a compact and discriminative latent representation from EEG and perform classification simultaneously. **Results:** This approach reduces the complexity in pre-processing, results in significant performance improvement on EEG classification. Experimental results in a subject-independent manner show that MIN2Net outperforms the state-of-the-art techniques, achieving an F1-score improvement of 6.72% and 2.23% on the SMR-BCI and OpenBMI datasets, respectively. **Conclusion:** We demonstrate that MIN2Net improves discriminative information in the latent representation. Significance: This study indicates the possibility and practicality of using this model to develop MI-based BCI applications for new users without calibration.
